mind your decisions I'm presh tal Walker
suppose two lines intersect in the
interior of the circle if the measure of
this arc of the circle is equal to 80
degrees and the measure of this arc of
the circle is equal to 140 degrees what
is the value of this angle X where the
two lines intersect pause the video if
you'd like to give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
so how can we solve this problem the key
is constructing a chord of the circle
between the two intersecting lines let's
see why this helps consider this 80
degree arc notice between this chord and
a line we've constructed an inscribed
angle of the circle
therefore the measure of this inscribed
angle would be 1/2 of 80 degrees which
is equal to 40 degrees
similarly for the other arc we've
constructed an inscribed angle of the
circle
therefore the measure of this angle will
be equal to 70 degrees putting these two
facts together we now consider the two
intersecting lines and this constructed
triangle this angle X is an exterior
angle of the triangle therefore its
value will be equal to 70 degrees plus
40 degrees which is equal to 110 degrees
another way of seeing this is that the
remaining angle in the triangle is equal
to 70 degrees to get a total sum of 180
degrees and then X is equal to 180
degrees minus 70 degrees which is equal
to 110 degrees and that's our answer
thanks for making mind your decisions
one of the best channels on YouTube as
always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
[Music]